
Empty the fileset quota:
[root@gpfs1 logs]# mmsetquota gpfs_test:sw1 --block 0:0

Set the fileset quota:
[root@gpfs1 logs]# mmsetquota gpfs_test:sw1 --block 0:0



There are two thresholds in Spectrum Scale quotas: the soft limit and the hard limit.
The range of space between the soft limit and the hard limit is governed by the Grace Period.

Here are some concepts from the Spectrum Scale documentation:

Soft limit
    Defines levels of disk space and files below which the user, group of users,
    or fileset can safely operate. It's the total amount of disk space that this
    user, group, or fileset is allowed to use during the grace period

Hard limit
    Defines the maximum amount of disk space and number of files the user, group
    of users, or fileset can accumulate.

Grace period
     Allows the user, group of users, or fileset to exceed the soft limit for a
     specified period of time. The default period is one week. If usage is not
     reduced to a level below the soft limit during that time, the quota system
     interprets the soft limit as the hard limit and no further allocation is
     allowed. The user, group of users, or fileset can reset this condition
     by reducing usage enough to fall below the soft limit; or the administrator
     can increase the quota levels using the mmedquota or mmdefedquota.

In doubt quotas
     Disk space allocated but currently unaccounted for. The sum of the in doubt
     value and the current usage may not exceed the hard limit. Consequently,
     the actual block space and number  of files available to the user of the
     group may be constrained by the in doubt value. Should the in doubt value
     approach a significant percentage of the quota, use the mmcheckquota command
     to account for the lost space and files.

And here is an example:

 Userid paul issued this command:
   mmlsquota

 The system displays information similar to:
                            Block Limits             |           File Limits
Filesystem  type  KB   quota  limit  in_doubt   grace| files quota limit in_doubt grace
fsn         USR   728  100096 200192 4880       none | 35    30    50    10       6days

This output shows the quotas for user paul in file system fsn set to a soft limit of 100096 KB,
and a hard limit of 200192 KB. 728 KB is currently allocated to paul. 4880 KB is also in doubt,
meaning that the quota system has not yet been updated as to whether this space has been used by the nodes,
or whether it is still available. No grace period appears because the user has not exceeded his quota.
If the user had exceeded the soft limit, the grace period would be set and the user would have that amount
of time to bring his usage below the quota values. If the user failed to do so, the user would not be allocated any more space.

The soft limit for files (inodes) is set at 30 and the hard limit is 50.
35 files are currently allocated to this user, and the quota system does not yet know whether the 10 in doubt
have been used or are still available. A grace period of six days appears because the user has exceeded his quota.
The user would have this amount of time to bring his usage below the quota values. If the user fails to do so,
the user is not allocated any more space.

You can also use the mmedquota command to change the file system-specific grace periods for block and file usage
if the default of one week is unsatisfactory. The grace period is the time during which users can exceed the soft
limit. If the user, group, or fileset does not show reduced usage below the soft limit before the grace period expires,
the soft limit becomes the new hard limit.

There is no way to force GPFS nodes to relinquish all their local shares in order to check for lost quotas.
This can only be determined by running the mmcheckquota command immediately after mounting the file system,
and before any allocations are made. In this case, the value in doubt is the amount lost.

To display the latest quota usage information, use the -e option on either the mmlsquota or the mmrepquota commands.
Remember that the mmquotaon and mmquotaoff commands do not enable and disable quota management. These commands merely
control enforcement of quota limits. Usage continues to be counted and recorded in the quota files regardless of
enforcement. Reduce quota usage by deleting or compressing files or moving them out of the file system. Consider increasing quota limit